Hello everybody and welcome in this lecture.
We're going to have a closer look at classes and also delve into components again.
So we're going to be introducing the idea of inheritance.
We're going to explore the class viewer to see the depth of unrealized class system.
We're going to explore using the class viewer to see the depth of unrealized class system.
It is quite bewildering quite how much there is in there and you'll see that in a few moments.
So inheritance is for is a relationship so you might say a Ford is a car whereas a component might be
a driver.
So a car has a driver.
Those are a very brief example or dive into more details now.
So classes and inheritance.
So a character in Unreal is a pawn and a pawn is an actor.
And this inheritance all of the features that an actor has a pawn will have by default and anything
that a pawn has by default a character will also inherits in this type of inheritance is incredibly
powerful and a real life example of this would simply be that a dog is a mammal and a mammal is a type
of animal or we could use the car analogy as well.
Now on real makes extensive use of inheritance and of course with great power comes great responsibility.
So it is a powerful tool if used properly however it can be inflexible and hard to refactor later on.
So let's have another look at components before we dive into unreal.
So components are great for sharing common behavioral features.
Now sometimes they're necessary mesh collision audio.
They can only be components on our actors in our scene and actors of course can have custom components.
Remember in the bull cow game we had the bull cow cartridge that was a custom component that we had
made.
And now let's create a world position component our very first component made an unreal OK so we're
over an unreal.
And the first thing I want to do is go up to a window and then go down to developer tools and have a
look at the class viewer.
And this is the extent No not quite.
This is part of the extent of unreal class system.
If we actually go to filters at the top here we can turn off actors only.
And we see quite well let's 2800 I'm not going to scroll down that so this is a really in-depth class
system and all of that inheritance will work within this class system so let's have a look back at actors
only.
And a reminder that an actor is anything we can place in our scene.
Let's have a look at actor and then we were talking about a porn before and wow if we hover over it
gives us a lot of detail as well.
Now if we scroll down here we can find porn.
We can also search at the top here if we need more data and we can see the the hierarchy here we've
got an actor than a porn and a character.
And these will inherit everything above them in this hierarchy which is incredibly useful.
Let's close down the class sphere for the moment and I'll leave you to explore that in your own time
there's lots to look at and it helps give you an idea of how unreal is structured and what inherits
what from each actor okay.
The next thing we need to do is create a custom component now a component needs to exist on something
it can't really exist in isolation.
So let's go ahead and create a new object in our scene so let's go to our basic mesh objects that we
can drag in and drag across a sphere.
For instance we could also click on any of the other actors in our scene.
But I think it's useful to have something that we can move around and check later on that when we're
reporting its position we get that accurate.
So let's go ahead and add a component and a new C++ component when we go ahead and do this.
We will have a series of options and we want to create an active component is a reusable component that
can be added to an actor says Go ahead click next.
Now this is where we get a chance to give it a name.
Now I'm going to call it world position
and of course you could name it something else if you wanted to.
Now unreal is naming convention with classes will actually show value at the beginning of World position
but we don't have to add it here.
Then we can go ahead and click Create class.
Now what will be happening in the background here and it may take a few moments on your computer is
a lot of boilerplate code is being set up and then what we should see opening up is our world position
with a header file and our implementation file as well.
Here we go and it's opening up.
So we have the world position the H and the world position dot c p p and looking at this we can see
some similarities.
We've had a look at this type of thing before.
Let's have a look at the head of file first.
There's an awful lot here that we're going to glance over on the initial pass so don't worry about not
taking everything in at this point.
So first of all let's start from the very top.
Fill out your copyright notice in the description page of the project settings.
Well let's go ahead and do that.
Now it won't affect what we've already done but it will affect anything in the future so if we go to
the edit menu project settings and then we have.
Would you look at that.
Fill out your copyright notice.
So this is where you can put in anything that you want to.
I can go copyrights.
Michael bridge is 2019 or whatever it happens to be.
And of course this is important if you want to protect your work.
And of course you can fill in some of these other details here as well if you wanted to.
I'm just going to come out of the project settings and have a look back at our header file let's carry
on down we've got our pride.
My wants is not going to continually bring in these header files beneath.
It's important here that this include world position not generated to H.
This generated file must be at the bottom of this list of includes if it it's not you may have an error
thrown out plates are wrong then going down we've got our class and there's a lot of boiler plate down
here that we're not going to dive into at the moment but we can see here that our world position our
new class that we've created is inheriting from the you at component then we have a look under here
we've got our basic setup our constructor and then underneath we have a begin play function and a tick
component function.
Okay so let's go over and have a look at our implementation and let's make this a bit narrower as well.
Okay.
So first of all we include our header file.
Absolutely fine standard stuff.
Then we construct our world position and we've got this little bits in here we'll dive back to that
in a moment and then we have big game play.
So what's happening here.
Well when the game is initialized when we press play whatever code is here will be run.
But what's at this super begin play mean it means that everything further up the hierarchy has to be
run first and then we can get to running the code we've put here on line 23.
Now what about line 33 what's this tick.
Components.
Well if we have a look at the top here this component is set to be initialized when the game starts
which is fine.
That makes sense.
And then to be ticked every frame.
So any code that we put here on line 33 or indeed anything after Super tick component that will be run
every frame of the game.
And of course back up here where this is true if we change that's a false that it would mean that this
instance of the component would not be updating every frame and would be great not only for optimization
but also just not wasting resources in general Okay brilliant.
So we now have a custom component it doesn't do much at the moment but we've got one and now I've got
a small challenge for you.
I would like you to go ahead and create another actor in your scene perhaps a different shape a cylinder
or a cube and add to it your newly made component pulls over the year now and give that a go Okay everybody
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now create another actor in our scene and add our new component to so it's okay.
So pretty straightforward.
This one I'm going to drag a cube over into the scene and drag it up here.
And if we go to add component we can search for it or indeed we can scroll down to custom and there
is a world position.
Excellent.
So now both of these have the world position component on them and we can see that just here in the
details tab.
Excellent.
How did you guys get on.
I'm looking forward to getting that well positioned actually doing something and I'll see you will in
the next lecture.